README.md, before:

# malagasy_translate_tutorial

This is a simple python tutorial to practice using dictionaries/JSON objects by creating a simple program which translates basic phrases between English and Malagasy.

It also contains some warm-up exercises.

Please *fork* this project. *Forking* is a special feature of GitHub allowing to create your own new repository based on someone elses. From GitHub documentation:

>> A fork is a copy of a repository. Forking a repository allows you to freely experiment with changes without affecting the original project.

>> Most commonly, forks are used to either propose changes to someone else's project or to use someone else's project as a starting point for your own idea.

## Using python under windows
### Setup and install
Simple way to get python installed and configured is a data science platform Anaconda, available at https://www.continuum.io/downloads. It is recommended to use python in version 3.

### Use interactive notebooks
Once Anaconda is installed you can create and edit jupyter notebooks:

1. Open *Anaconda prompt* from windows start menu.
2. Type `jupyter notebook`.
3. Locate notebook saved on your computer or create a new one.

### Execute python scripts
Python programs are interpreted (they don't need to be compiled). You can execute such a program (for instance program `calculator` from this repository )in *Anaconda prompt* by typing `python calculator.py`

### Edit files
I recommend using *Notepad++* for editing files under windows.

## Exercises in this project:
1. Simple calculator program `calculator.py`.

Commit message:

added exercise for file IO

README.md, after:

# malagasy_translate_tutorial

This is a simple python tutorial to practice using dictionaries/JSON objects by creating a simple program which translates basic phrases between English and Malagasy.

It also contains some warm-up exercises.

Please *fork* this project. *Forking* is a special feature of GitHub allowing to create your own new repository based on someone elses. From GitHub documentation:

>> A fork is a copy of a repository. Forking a repository allows you to freely experiment with changes without affecting the original project.

>> Most commonly, forks are used to either propose changes to someone else's project or to use someone else's project as a starting point for your own idea.

## Using python under windows
### Setup and install
Simple way to get python installed and configured is a data science platform Anaconda, available at https://www.continuum.io/downloads. It is recommended to use python in version 3.

### Use interactive notebooks
Once Anaconda is installed you can create and edit jupyter notebooks:

1. Open *Anaconda prompt* from windows start menu.
2. Type `jupyter notebook`.
3. Locate notebook saved on your computer or create a new one.

### Execute python scripts
Python programs are interpreted (they don't need to be compiled). You can execute such a program (for instance program `calculator` from this repository )in *Anaconda prompt* by typing `python calculator.py`

### Edit files
I recommend using *Notepad++* for editing files under windows.

## Exercises in this project:
1. Run script `1_os_operations.py`. Open it in an editor and follow the instructions in the commetary of the file.
2. Same for `2_calculator.py`
3. `3_file_io.py`
4. `4_translator.py`
